the second book of Kings Moab rebelled
against Israel after the death of Ahab
now a his ire fell through the lattice
of his upper room in Samaria and was
injured so he sent messengers and said
to them go inquire vel ziba the God of
Ekron whether I shall recover from this
injury but the angel of the Lord said to
Elijah the Tishbite arise go up to meet
the messengers the king of Samaria say
to them is it because there is no God in
Israel that you are going to inquire
Beelzebub the God of Ekron now therefore
thus says the Lord you shall not come
down from the bed to which you have gone
up but you shall surely die so Elijah
departed and when the messengers
returned to him he said to them why have
you come back a man came up to meet us
and said to us go return to the king who
sent you and say to him thus says the
Lord is it because there is no God in
Israel that you are sending to inquire
of baal-zebub
the god of Ekron therefore you shall not
come down from the bed to which you have
gone up but you shall surely die what
kind of man was it who came up to meet
you and told you these words a hairy man
wearing a leather belt around his waist
it is Elijah the Tishbite then the king
sent to him a captain of fifty with his
fifty men so he went up to him and there
he was sitting on the top of a hill and
he spoke to him
man of God the King has said come down
so Elijah answered and said to the
captain of 50 if I am a man of God then
let fire come down from heaven and
consume you and your fifty men fire came
down from heaven and consumed him and
his fifty and he sent to him another
captain of fifty with his fifty men man
of God thus says the King said come down
quickly if I am a man of God let fire
come down from heaven and consume you
and your fifty men and the fire of God
came down from heaven and consumed him
and his fifty again he sent a third
captain of fifty with his fifty men and
the third captain of fifty went up and
came and fell on his knees before Elijah
and pleaded with him men of God please
let my life and the life of these fifty
servants of yours be precious in your
sight
look fire has come down from heaven and
burned up the first two captains of 50s
with their fifties but let my life now
be precious in your sight and the angel
of the Lord said to Elisha go down with
him do not be afraid of him
so he arose and went down with him to
the king then he said to him thus says
the Lord because you have sent
messengers to inquire of Beelzebub the
God of Ekron is it because there is no
God in Israel to inquire of his word
therefore you shall not come down from
the bed to what you have gone up but you
shall surely die so a has I had died
according to the word of the Lord which
Elijah had spoken because he had no son
Jehoram became king in his place in the
second year of jihad on the son of
Jehoshaphat king of Judah now the rest
of the acts of Ahaz i which he did are
they not written in the book of the
chronicles of the kings of Israel